README.md, before:

# Basic Fediverse Reader

A simple reader for viewing posts and profiles from the fediverse. Built with Fedify, Next.js, React, and Tailwind.

This project is a personal learning project showcasing a simple Next.js app to fetch Fediverse posts and profiles with Fedify. The application now supports both post URLs and profile URLs, allowing users to view individual posts or browse user profiles with their recent posts. I would not consider the code production-ready.

## Features

- **Post Viewing**: View individual fediverse posts with rich formatting, hashtag highlighting, and author information
- **Profile Viewing**: Browse user profiles and their recent posts from across the fediverse
- **Custom Emoji Support**: Displays server-specific custom emojis in usernames, posts, and profiles (e.g., `:archlinux:`, `:neovim:`)
- **Multi-Platform Support**: Works with various fediverse platforms (Mastodon, Pixelfed, etc.)
- **Smart URL Detection**: Automatically detects whether input is a post URL or profile URL
- **ActivityPub Integration**: Uses Fedify for proper ActivityPub protocol implementation

## Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Project Overview](#project-overview)

## Installation

To install the Basic Fediverse Reader and its dependencies, you need to have Node.js installed. Clone the repository from GitHub and install the required packages using npm:

```sh
npm install
```

This will install both the runtime and development dependencies as specified in the package.json file.

## Usage

To use the Basic Fediverse Reader, you can run different scripts provided in the package.json:

- Start the development server:  

  ```sh
  npm run dev
  ```

- Lint the project:  

  ```sh
  npm run lint
  ```

### Using the Application

1. **View Posts**: Enter any fediverse post URL (e.g., `https://mastodon.social/@user/123456789`) in the input field
2. **View Profiles**: Enter any fediverse profile URL (e.g., `https://floss.social/@chris`) to view user profiles and recent posts
3. **Supported URL Formats**:
   - Post URLs: `server.com/@username/postid`, `server.com/notes/abc123`
   - Profile URLs: `server.com/@username`, `server.com/users/username`
   - Works with elk.zone URLs and other common formats

### Custom Emoji Support

The application now supports custom emojis from fediverse servers! When viewing posts or profiles that include custom emojis (like `:archlinux:` or `:neovim:`), they will be automatically displayed as inline images:

- **In Usernames**: Custom emojis in display names show up properly (e.g., "codeDude :archlinux: :neovim:")
- **In Post Content**: Emoji shortcodes in post text are replaced with the actual emoji images
- **In Profile Bios**: HTML content in user bios displays custom emojis correctly
- **Server-Specific**: Each fediverse server can have its own unique emoji set
- **Styling**: Emojis are styled to match the hand-drawn aesthetic of the app

The custom emoji feature uses ActivityPub's emoji tags to fetch and display server-specific emojis, making the fediverse experience more authentic and expressive.

## Project Overview

Here is a brief overview of important files and folders in the project:

- The React code is mainly in the /app and /components folders.
  - `post/[...postUrl]` - Main page for viewing individual fediverse posts.
  - `profile/[...userHandle]` - Profile pages for viewing user profiles and recent posts.
  - `[fedify]/[[...catchAll]]` - Allows this app to run as an ActivityPub server.
- `/components` contains reusable UI components:
  - `nav.tsx` - Smart URL input that handles both post and profile URLs
  - `toot.tsx` - Post display component with rich formatting
  - `profileHeader.tsx` - User profile header display
  - `tootCard.tsx` & `tootCardFull.tsx` - Post cards for different layouts
  - `emojiText.tsx` - Client component for rendering text with custom emojis
  - `emojiHtml.tsx` - Client component for rendering HTML content with custom emojis
- `/util` has federation setup, post/profile fetching, and utility functions:
  - `federation.ts` - Fedify setup and ActivityPub configuration
  - `fetchPost.ts` - Logic for fetching posts and user data from ActivityPub
  - `helpers.ts` - URL parsing and utility functions
  - `emoji.ts` - Custom emoji extraction and processing utilities
  - `emojiServer.ts` - Server actions for emoji processing
- `/public` has the bulk of the custom SVGs used throughout the interface.

Commit message:

:sparkles: Feat: add hashtag page

README.md, after:

# Basic Fediverse Reader

A simple reader for viewing posts and profiles from the fediverse. Built with Fedify, Next.js, React, and Tailwind.

This project is a personal learning project showcasing a simple Next.js app to fetch Fediverse posts and profiles with Fedify. The application now supports both post URLs and profile URLs, allowing users to view individual posts or browse user profiles with their recent posts. I would not consider the code production-ready.

## Features

- **Post Viewing**: View individual fediverse posts with rich formatting, hashtag highlighting, and author information
- **Profile Viewing**: Browse user profiles and their recent posts from across the fediverse  
- **Hashtag Pages**: Click on hashtags in posts to navigate to dedicated hashtag pages (search functionality coming soon)
- **Custom Emoji Support**: Displays server-specific custom emojis in usernames, posts, and profiles (e.g., `:archlinux:`, `:neovim:`)
- **Multi-Platform Support**: Works with various fediverse platforms (Mastodon, Pixelfed, etc.)
- **Smart URL Detection**: Automatically detects whether input is a post URL or profile URL
- **ActivityPub Integration**: Uses Fedify for proper ActivityPub protocol implementation

## Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Project Overview](#project-overview)

## Installation

To install the Basic Fediverse Reader and its dependencies, you need to have Node.js installed. Clone the repository from GitHub and install the required packages using npm:

```sh
npm install
```

This will install both the runtime and development dependencies as specified in the package.json file.

## Usage

To use the Basic Fediverse Reader, you can run different scripts provided in the package.json:

- Start the development server:  

  ```sh
  npm run dev
  ```

- Lint the project:  

  ```sh
  npm run lint
  ```

### Using the Application

1. **View Posts**: Enter any fediverse post URL (e.g., `https://mastodon.social/@user/123456789`) in the input field
2. **View Profiles**: Enter any fediverse profile URL (e.g., `https://floss.social/@chris`) to view user profiles and recent posts
3. **Browse Hashtags**: Click on any hashtag (e.g., `#hike`, `#art`) in posts to view dedicated hashtag pages
4. **Supported URL Formats**:
   - Post URLs: `server.com/@username/postid`, `server.com/notes/abc123`
   - Profile URLs: `server.com/@username`, `server.com/users/username`
   - Hashtag URLs: `yourapp.com/hashtag/tagname`
   - Works with elk.zone URLs and other common formats

### Custom Emoji Support

The application now supports custom emojis from fediverse servers! When viewing posts or profiles that include custom emojis (like `:archlinux:` or `:neovim:`), they will be automatically displayed as inline images:

- **In Usernames**: Custom emojis in display names show up properly (e.g., "codeDude :archlinux: :neovim:")
- **In Post Content**: Emoji shortcodes in post text are replaced with the actual emoji images
- **In Profile Bios**: HTML content in user bios displays custom emojis correctly
- **Server-Specific**: Each fediverse server can have its own unique emoji set
- **Styling**: Emojis are styled to match the hand-drawn aesthetic of the app

The custom emoji feature uses ActivityPub's emoji tags to fetch and display server-specific emojis, making the fediverse experience more authentic and expressive.

## Project Overview

Here is a brief overview of important files and folders in the project:

- The React code is mainly in the /app and /components folders.
  - `post/[...postUrl]` - Main page for viewing individual fediverse posts.
  - `profile/[...userHandle]` - Profile pages for viewing user profiles and recent posts.
  - `hashtag/[tag]` - Hashtag pages for browsing posts by hashtag (search functionality coming soon).
  - `[fedify]/[[...catchAll]]` - Allows this app to run as an ActivityPub server.
- `/components` contains reusable UI components:
  - `nav.tsx` - Smart URL input that handles both post and profile URLs
  - `toot.tsx` - Post display component with rich formatting
  - `profileHeader.tsx` - User profile header display
  - `tootCard.tsx` & `tootCardFull.tsx` - Post cards for different layouts
  - `emojiText.tsx` - Client component for rendering text with custom emojis
  - `emojiHtml.tsx` - Client component for rendering HTML content with custom emojis
- `/util` has federation setup, post/profile fetching, and utility functions:
  - `federation.ts` - Fedify setup and ActivityPub configuration
  - `fetchPost.ts` - Logic for fetching posts and user data from ActivityPub
  - `helpers.ts` - URL parsing and utility functions
  - `emoji.ts` - Custom emoji extraction and processing utilities
  - `emojiServer.ts` - Server actions for emoji processing
  - `hashtagSearch.ts` - Hashtag search utilities and future implementation foundation
- `/public` has the bulk of the custom SVGs used throughout the interface.
